docs/gen-1/red-blue/catext/no-item-underflow/README.md, before:

# Pokemon Blue No Item Underflow
**CLEAR SAVE DATA FOR EACH ATTEMPT OR YOUR RUN IS INVALID**

I highly recommend to watch [Rosstafari's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=2s)
and to watch his [Yoloballs Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=urs_pAuqwRQ&t=785s)

## Before doing a new run

- Clear the save data by pressing Up + Select + B on the title screen and then toggling Down to say Yes. 
- If playing on Emulator, either Hard Reset before each individual attempt or capture the entire emulator border in order for the run to be valid.
- On the New Game screen enter the Options menu, and set Text Speed to Fast and Battle Animations to Off

## Intro

Name yourself a **5-letters** name(5 As is the fastest) and your rival the **first default name** by clearing the preceding text box with B and buffering Down and A.

## Before Rival

- The fight against the rival is very risky, so if you are not wanting a WR time **you should take the PC potion**.
> This can be done quickly buffering a B press immediately after talking to the PC to clear the first instant text box, then mash A until the Potion is being withdrawn, and lastly mash B (and hold right) to exit the PC.
- Exit the house and walk into Route 1 to trigger the cut scene.
- Choose the third ball to obtain Bulbasaur and nickname it **"A"**. 
> Buffer dex entry with B, press A (confirm choice), mash A (nickname)

## Rival Fight

- You **must** win this fight to level up to Lvl 6. if you loose, then reset.
- Spam Tackle(Mash A)

  - If you are at **6hp or lower and you know you won't kill him next turn**, heal with potion.

    > This is because Charmander can Crit on Scratch and deal you 6 HP.
- **WHEN LEVELING UP, DON'T SKIP THE STATS SCREEN : CHECK FOR SPECIAL** :

  - If you have 12 special (Bad) : Reset. Or if you really want, try the backup [PP Strats](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=pp-strat).
  - If you have 13 special (Great) : We'll need to do an extra battle in Route 1, Lvl 2/3 Rats and Lvl 2 Pidgeys are prefered.
    - Run away if Lvl 3 pidgey.
  - If you have 14 special (Perfect) : No need to do an extra battle, play normally.
 
 ## Oak's Parcel
- Exit Oak's Lab, travel up Route 1, and enter the Viridian City Mart to obtain Oak's Parcel.
> If you don't get an encounter here that's ok, you stil have 2 opportunities left(back to Pallet Town, Back to Viridian)
- Exit the mart, enter Route 1, and head back to the lab.
- Talk to Oak from the left, it saves time because our rival has less steps to do.

## Brock Throughs Walls(BTW)

The first glitch we will perform is called Brock Through Walls.
The detail of the strat we're going to use is also written [here](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=without-bulbasaur-manipulation)
> When selecting the manip if you follow the strat from the page above, choose the **5 characters players name** or just follow the guide here.

- Head to Viridian Mart : buy
  - 2 Pokeballs
 > Note : You can buy extras balls if you are afraid to fail the **yoloball*, but later in the run you will **NEED** to know how to do a yoloball, so it's up to you.
- Take the [**Tree potion**](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#54/166)
  > Or don't take it and take the grass potion before Weedle Guy.

- Do the [Pidgey manip](https://youtu.be/Ua0ZyWffYpU)
- Don't rename Pidgey, and go into Viridian Forest.
- Walk [This Path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=51#17/47/UUUURURRRRRRRRUUUUUUUULUURRUUUUUUUUUUUULLUUUUUUUURUUULLLLLLLLDDDDDDDLLLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDLLLLLLUUUA)
> The potion in front of Weedle Guy is if you want to play it really, really safe.

- **Weedle Guy** :

  - Spam Tackle

    > If you get under 7 HP, use the potion.

- You should now have a Bulbusaur with 16 special.
> If you had a Bulbusaur with 13 Spe at Lvl 6, there is a slight chance that you get 15 Spe. If that is the case, reset. You can go for [PP Strats](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=pp-strat), but it really isn't worth it.

- Go to the Pokémon Center and **heal in it**, to set our warp point here. If you don't heal, it won't set the warp point.
- Go to the shop and buy :
  - 1 Escape Rope
  - If you don't have any Poké Balls, buy **one**.

  ### [**Brock Skip**](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=brock-skip-1)

     1. Set your cursor over the SAVE option (dont save quite yet)
     2. Head to Route 3 exit, staying one tile above the sign
     3. Trigger the cutscene
     4. When the "Follow Me" textbox appears, clear it with the B button
     5. Instantly after pressing B hold the START button
     6. If you did it right, your start menu should pop up
     7. Hit SAVE (you are already over it) and soft reset after the game saves
     8. If your start menu didn't open, you hit start too late. Just go back and try again
     9. Once the game reset, load the savefile normally
     10. After clearing the last textbox, hold RIGHT until you can hear the music change to Route 3 music
      - Go back to the guy and stand right next to him
      - Talk to the guy, after clearing the last textboxes hold B and take a couple of steps RIGHT

**FROM NOW YOU MUST NEVER RELEASE B UNTIL WE ENTER CERULEAN CAVE**

 ### Path to Cerulean Cave
  - So the Goal is to reach Cerulean Cave, and here is the [fastest path](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jT0nZStQNU)
  - Take this path carefully: you are walking out of bounds, one false step can crash the game
 
## Cerulan cave and Cooltrainer glitch

- Now, we will manip a Lvl 55 Ditto : this is why you need to get consistent at yoloballs ; you can't catch a Lvl 55 Ditto in one ball like that normally.
- Once you entered the cave, do the **[Ditto Manip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aIE01IgqhFw)**
  - Nickname Ditto **"A"**
- After nicknaming it, menu and go into the Pokémon Menu :
  - Switch Pokémons so that :
    - Ditto is first
    - Bulbusaur is second
    - And Pidgey is third and last
   
- Then, start a wild encounter : if you encounter an **Electrode** or a **Kadabra**, run away.

> It's because these two can outspeed Ditto and kill him in one hit.
- Once in the battle, use transform and **swap the top 2 moves**.
- Then, **run away** and use the **escape rope**. 

## Second BTW
  - When you teleport back to Pewter city, there will be a text box
  > The game still thinks we're in the cutscene, so it will freezes for 2 seconds after clearin the text box. That's why we go into the house before doing BTW.
  - Go into the house at the right of the map, and exit out immediately.
  - Do Brock Skip a second time(explanations above)
  - Now, the path we will take will be different, just remember to **hold B during the whole process**
  - Follow this [path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#76/70/LLLLLLLLLLLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDS), on the blue tile, quickly press Start.
  - Go into your Pokémon menu and close it. Then close the start menu by pressing and holding B.
  - Now follow this [path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#62/199/UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLLLLLLLLLUUUUUUULLLLLLLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU). On the map it looks like we're walking in the void but we're actually walking into a bugged Indigo plateau. Watch Rosstafari's Tutorial from [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=3487s) for a more clear understanting of the path.

## ELITE 4

- Walk into Lorelei's room.

> We are now going to use the Cooltrainer Glicth to skip all the battles;

- Start the fight by speaking to her.
  - Go into the fight menu : you should see a move with the type "Cooltrainer♀" with 0 out of 13 PP.
    - Mash Down until the screen starts showing glitch things, then mash A.
- Voilà ! You instantly won the fight ! Now repeat this process for every other fight, and mash throughs text boxes to end the run.
- Timing stops on the fade to white after you receive your in game time.

## Notes

- You can use the runs on the leaderboard for reference [here](https://www.speedrun.com/fr-FR/pkmnrbext?h=Any_No_Item_Underflow&x=mkew5jnk).
- Watching runs help improve a lot, and can help you understand something you didn't with the guide.
- Again, this guide is based off runs and [Rosstafari's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=2s), who was i believe the first to document the entire route, so if you see this, shoutout to you !
- For now, i wrote everything down, but maybe people will improve this guide.

## **HAVE FUN !**

Commit message:

Added discord and fixed minor spelling mistake
**yoloball* was missing an asterisk, and I added the cat ext rb channel link

docs/gen-1/red-blue/catext/no-item-underflow/README.md, after:

# Pokemon Blue No Item Underflow
**CLEAR SAVE DATA FOR EACH ATTEMPT OR YOUR RUN IS INVALID**

I highly recommend to watch [Rosstafari's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=2s)
and to watch his [Yoloballs Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=urs_pAuqwRQ&t=785s)

## Before doing a new run

- Clear the save data by pressing Up + Select + B on the title screen and then toggling Down to say Yes. 
- If playing on Emulator, either Hard Reset before each individual attempt or capture the entire emulator border in order for the run to be valid.
- On the New Game screen enter the Options menu, and set Text Speed to Fast and Battle Animations to Off

## Intro

Name yourself a **5-letters** name(5 As is the fastest) and your rival the **first default name** by clearing the preceding text box with B and buffering Down and A.

## Before Rival

- The fight against the rival is very risky, so if you are not wanting a WR time **you should take the PC potion**.
> This can be done quickly buffering a B press immediately after talking to the PC to clear the first instant text box, then mash A until the Potion is being withdrawn, and lastly mash B (and hold right) to exit the PC.
- Exit the house and walk into Route 1 to trigger the cut scene.
- Choose the third ball to obtain Bulbasaur and nickname it **"A"**. 
> Buffer dex entry with B, press A (confirm choice), mash A (nickname)

## Rival Fight

- You **must** win this fight to level up to Lvl 6. if you loose, then reset.
- Spam Tackle(Mash A)

  - If you are at **6hp or lower and you know you won't kill him next turn**, heal with potion.

    > This is because Charmander can Crit on Scratch and deal you 6 HP.
- **WHEN LEVELING UP, DON'T SKIP THE STATS SCREEN : CHECK FOR SPECIAL** :

  - If you have 12 special (Bad) : Reset. Or if you really want, try the backup [PP Strats](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=pp-strat).
  - If you have 13 special (Great) : We'll need to do an extra battle in Route 1, Lvl 2/3 Rats and Lvl 2 Pidgeys are prefered.
    - Run away if Lvl 3 pidgey.
  - If you have 14 special (Perfect) : No need to do an extra battle, play normally.
 
 ## Oak's Parcel
- Exit Oak's Lab, travel up Route 1, and enter the Viridian City Mart to obtain Oak's Parcel.
> If you don't get an encounter here that's ok, you stil have 2 opportunities left(back to Pallet Town, Back to Viridian)
- Exit the mart, enter Route 1, and head back to the lab.
- Talk to Oak from the left, it saves time because our rival has less steps to do.

## Brock Throughs Walls(BTW)

The first glitch we will perform is called Brock Through Walls.
The detail of the strat we're going to use is also written [here](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=without-bulbasaur-manipulation)
> When selecting the manip if you follow the strat from the page above, choose the **5 characters players name** or just follow the guide here.

- Head to Viridian Mart : buy
  - 2 Pokeballs
 > Note : You can buy extras balls if you are afraid to fail the **yoloball**, but later in the run you will **NEED** to know how to do a yoloball, so it's up to you.
- Take the [**Tree potion**](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#54/166)
  > Or don't take it and take the grass potion before Weedle Guy.

- Do the [Pidgey manip](https://youtu.be/Ua0ZyWffYpU)
- Don't rename Pidgey, and go into Viridian Forest.
- Walk [This Path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=51#17/47/UUUURURRRRRRRRUUUUUUUULUURRUUUUUUUUUUUULLUUUUUUUURUUULLLLLLLLDDDDDDDLLLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDLLLLLLUUUA)
> The potion in front of Weedle Guy is if you want to play it really, really safe.

- **Weedle Guy** :

  - Spam Tackle

    > If you get under 7 HP, use the potion.

- You should now have a Bulbusaur with 16 special.
> If you had a Bulbusaur with 13 Spe at Lvl 6, there is a slight chance that you get 15 Spe. If that is the case, reset. You can go for [PP Strats](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=pp-strat), but it really isn't worth it.

- Go to the Pokémon Center and **heal in it**, to set our warp point here. If you don't heal, it won't set the warp point.
- Go to the shop and buy :
  - 1 Escape Rope
  - If you don't have any Poké Balls, buy **one**.

  ### [**Brock Skip**](https://pokemon-speedrunning.github.io/speedrun-routes/#/gen-1/red-blue/catext/reverse-badge-acquisition/resources/Brock-Through-Walls-Guide?id=brock-skip-1)

     1. Set your cursor over the SAVE option (dont save quite yet)
     2. Head to Route 3 exit, staying one tile above the sign
     3. Trigger the cutscene
     4. When the "Follow Me" textbox appears, clear it with the B button
     5. Instantly after pressing B hold the START button
     6. If you did it right, your start menu should pop up
     7. Hit SAVE (you are already over it) and soft reset after the game saves
     8. If your start menu didn't open, you hit start too late. Just go back and try again
     9. Once the game reset, load the savefile normally
     10. After clearing the last textbox, hold RIGHT until you can hear the music change to Route 3 music
      - Go back to the guy and stand right next to him
      - Talk to the guy, after clearing the last textboxes hold B and take a couple of steps RIGHT

**FROM NOW YOU MUST NEVER RELEASE B UNTIL WE ENTER CERULEAN CAVE**

 ### Path to Cerulean Cave
- The goal here is to reach Cerulean Cave, and here is the [fastest path](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jT0nZStQNU)
  - Take this path carefully: you are walking out of bounds, one false step can crash the game
 
## Cerulan cave and Cooltrainer glitch

- Now, we will manip a Lvl 55 Ditto : this is why you need to get consistent at yoloballs ; you can't catch a Lvl 55 Ditto in one ball like that normally.(Actually you can, but chances are astronomiclly low)
- Once you entered the cave, do the **[Ditto Manip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aIE01IgqhFw)**
  - Nickname Ditto **"A"**
- After nicknaming it, menu and go into the Pokémon Menu :
  - Switch Pokémons so that :
    - Ditto is first
    - Bulbusaur is second
    - And Pidgey is third and last
   
- Then, start a wild encounter : if you encounter an **Electrode** or a **Kadabra**, run away.

> It's because these two can outspeed Ditto and kill him in one hit.
- Once in the battle, use transform and **swap the top 2 moves**.
- Then, **run away** and use the **escape rope**. 

## Second BTW
  - When you teleport back to Pewter city, there will be a text box
  > The game still thinks we're in the cutscene, so it will freezes for 2 seconds after clearin the text box. That's why we go into the house before doing BTW.
  - Go into the house at the right of the map, and exit out immediately.
  - Do Brock Skip a second time(explanations above)
  - Now, the path we will take will be different, just remember to **hold B during the whole process**
  - Follow this [path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#76/70/LLLLLLLLLLLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDLLDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDS), on the blue tile, quickly press Start.
  - Go into your Pokémon menu and close it. Then close the start menu by pressing and holding B.
  - Now follow this [path](https://gunnermaniac.com/pokeworld?map=1#62/199/UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLLLLLLLLLUUUUUUULLLLLLLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU). On the map it looks like we're walking in the void but we're actually walking into a bugged Indigo plateau. Watch Rosstafari's Tutorial from [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=3487s) for a more clear understanting of the path.

## ELITE 4

- Walk into Lorelei's room.

> We are now going to use the Cooltrainer Glicth to skip all the battles;

- Start the fight by speaking to her.
  - Go into the fight menu : you should see a move with the type "Cooltrainer♀" with 0 out of 13 PP.
    - Mash Down until the screen starts showing glitch things, then mash A.
- Voilà ! You instantly won the fight ! Now repeat this process for every other fight, and mash throughs text boxes to end the run.
- Timing stops on the fade to white after you receive your in game time.

## Notes

- You can use the runs on the leaderboard for reference [here](https://www.speedrun.com/fr-FR/pkmnrbext?h=Any_No_Item_Underflow&x=mkew5jnk).
- Watching runs help improve a lot, and can help you understand something you didn't with the guide.
- Again, this guide is based off runs and [Rosstafari's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmIru_VnLgI&t=2s), who was i believe the first to document the entire route, so if you see this, shoutout to you !
- If you need any help for the run, or don't succeed at a manip without knowing why, the best thing to do is to join the Gen 1-3 PSR discord, post a video of your game with and input display in the channel [rb-category-extensions](https://discord.gg/aqmtaCzFW)and your problem will quickly be solved
- For now, i wrote everything down, but maybe people will improve this guide.

## **HAVE FUN !**
